# Nanoparticles
Machine learning predicts nanoparticles soil microbial community ecological risk
#Abstract
With the rapid development of nanotechnology in agriculture, there is increasing urgency to assess the impacts of nanoparticles (NPs) on the soil environment. This study merged raw high-throughput sequencing (HTS) data sets generated from 365 soil samples to reveal the potential ecological effects of NPs on soil microbial communities by means of metadata analysis and machine learning methods. Metadata analysis showed that treatment with nanoparticles did not have a significant impact on the alpha diversity of the microbial community, but significantly altered the beta diversity. Unfortunately, the abundance of several beneficial bacteria, such as Dyella, Methylophilus, Streptomyces, which promote the growth of plants, and improve pathogenic resistance, was reduced under the addition of synthetic nanoparticles. Furthermore, metadata demonstrated that nanoparticles treatment weakened the biosynthesis ability of cofactors, carriers, and vitamins, and enhanced the degradation ability of aromatic compounds, amino acids, etc. This is unfavorable for the performance of soil functions. Besides the soil heterogeneity, machine learning uncovered that a) the exposure time of nanoparticles was the most important factor to reshape the soil microbial community, and b) long-term exposure decreased the diversity of microbial communities and the abundance of beneficial bacteria. This study is the first to use a machine learning model and metadata analysis to investigate the relationship between the properties of nanoparticles and the hazards to the soil microbial community from a macro perspective. This guides the rational use of nanoparticles for which the impacts on soil microbiota are minimized.
